---
title: "駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟對中國電動車進行反補貼調查事"
date: 2024-08-20
country: 歐-歐盟兼比利時
source: 駐外新聞
tags:
  - 駐外新聞
  - 歐-歐盟兼比利時
clipped: 2026-06-22
---

# 駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟對中國電動車進行反補貼調查事

**發文日期**：2024-08-20　｜　**地區**：歐-歐盟兼比利時

---

## 主文

｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
裝
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
訂
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
線
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜
｜

駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組 函

檔　　號：

保存年限：

地址：Square de Meeus 27, Brussels 1000, Belgium
承辦人：劉文傑
電話：32-2-2872840
Email：wcliu@sa.moea.gov.tw

受文者：經濟部產業發展署

發文日期： 中華民國113年8月20日
發文字號：比貿字第1130000491號
速別：普通件

密等及解密條件或保密期限：
附件：如文(317051_比貿1130000491_Attach1.pdf、317051_比貿1130000491_Attach2.pd

f)

主旨：

有關歐盟對中國電動車進行反補貼調查事，請查照。

說明：

一、

二、

本組本(113)年7月4日比貿字第1130000421號函諒達。
查歐盟前於上(112)年10月4日公告依職權啟動對自中國進
口電動車之反補貼調查，並於本年7月4日公告課徵臨時平
衡稅，歐方嗣於本(20)日發布新聞稿表示，已向本案利害
關係人揭露課徵平衡稅之初步決議，該揭露係屬本案貿易

救濟調查之部分程序，以提供利害關係人提交評論之機

會，後續待完成分析來自利害關係人及歐盟會員國對之評
論意見後，將於本年10月30日前於歐盟公報公告最終決
議。

三、

依據前述新聞稿，目前初步決議更新如下：

(一)

(二)

考量利害關係人對臨時平衡稅措施之評論，擬微幅調整
平衡稅率，其中對比亞迪(BYD)、吉利(Geely)、及上汽
集團(SAIC)等三家業者，分別課徵稅率17%、19.3%及
36.3%之平衡稅，其他未受抽樣之業者，倘於調查期間
有配合調查，則適用稅率為21.3%，倘未配合調查，則
適用稅率為36.3%。
現階段擬單獨對業者特斯拉課徵9%平衡稅率，部分中國

113/08/21 一般公文總收文

113/08/21

11300844420

第1頁，共2頁

出口商及與歐洲製造商合資之企業(joint venture)，倘於
調查期間未出口電動車至歐盟，可望因與其他配合調查

業者之合作關係，適用配合調查業者之稅率；本案平衡

稅措施將不朔及既往。

四、

檢送歐方新聞稿及相關資料如附，敬請卓參。

正本：經濟部國際貿易署

副本：經濟部產業發展署、經濟部投資促進司、經濟部陳政務次長室(敬請經濟部代陳)

2024/08/21
08:00:06

113/08/21 一般公文總收文

113/08/21

11300844420

第2頁，共2頁

電 子 公 文交 換 章

---

## 附件 1

European Commission - Press release

Commission discloses to interested parties draft definitive findings of anti-
subsidy investigation into imports of battery electric vehicles from China

Brussels, 20 August 2024

Today, as part of its ongoing anti-subsidy investigation, the European Commission has disclosed to
interested parties the draft decision to impose definitive countervailing duties on imports
of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) from China. This draft decision reflects the comments
received from interested parties on the provisional countervailing duties published on 4 July 2024, as
well as the conclusion of a number of investigative steps that had not been finalised at provisional
stage.

The disclosure of draft definitive findings is an intermediate procedural step in a trade defence
investigation. The aim is to give interested parties the opportunity to comment, as was also done at
provisional stage. Once the Commission has analysed all comments by interested parties, and
Member States have given their opinion, the final decision will be published in the Official Journal of
the European Union.

The main novelties in the disclosure of the draft definitive findings - which are still subject to
change based on substantiated comments by interested parties – are as follows:

A slight adjustment of the proposed duty rates based on substantiated comments on the
provisional measures received from interested parties, as well as the conclusion of
investigative steps that had not yet been finalised at provisional stage:

BYD: 17,0%
Geely: 19,3%
SAIC: 36,3%
Other cooperating companies: 21,3%
All other non-cooperating companies: 36,3%;

The decision to grant an individual duty rate to Tesla as an exporter from China, established
at 9%, at this stage;
The possibility for several Chinese exporters and certain joint ventures with EU producers –
which did not yet export at the time of the investigation period – to benefit from the lower
duty rate foreseen for their related cooperating companies; and
The decision not to retroactively collect countervailing duties.

Procedure and next steps

On 4 October 2023, the Commission formally initiated an ex-officio anti-subsidy investigation on
imports of BEVs for passengers originating in China.

On 4 July 2024 the Commission published in the Official Journal of the European Union the regulation
imposing provisional countervailing duties on imports of BEVs from China. The duties entered into
force on 5 July 2024.

On 20 August 2024 the Commission disclosed to interested parties the draft decision to impose
definitive countervailing duties on imports of BEVs from China. This decision was made after the
Commission considered all the comments received from interested parties on the regulation
imposing provisional measures.

Interested parties also have the possibility to request hearings with the Commission services as soon
as possible, and to provide comments within 10 days. 

After that, having taken into account the comments by interested parties, the Commission will
present the final determination to Member States, which will vote pursuant to the examination
procedure under comitology rules (Commission proposal adopted unless there is qualified majority
against it). This vote will have binding effect.

Definitive measures must be imposed no later than 4 months after imposition of provisional duties. A
Commission Implementing Regulation including the definitive findings in the investigation will be
published in the Official Journal by 30 October 2024, at the latest (within maximum 13 months of
initiation).

Any potential measures will be in force for 5 years, extendable upon substantiated request and
subsequent review.

Background

The investigation was announced by Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission,
on 13 September 2023 during her State of the European Union (SOTEU) speech. This decision was
based on growing evidence-based concerns about the recent and rapid rise in low-priced exports of
electric vehicles coming from China to the EU. The Commission is following strict legal procedures in
line with EU and WTO rules, allowing all parties concerned, including the Chinese government and
companies/exporters, to present their comments, evidence and arguments.

For More Information

More information is available on the Commission's Trade website, in the public register under case
number AS689.

EU Trade Defence Policy

Questions and answers

IP/24/4301

Press contacts:

Olof GILL (+32 2 296 59 66)
Ana APSE-PAESE (+32 2 298 73 48)

General public inquiries: Europe Direct by phone 00 800 67 89 10 11 or by email

---

## 附件 2

European Commission - Questions and answers

Questions and Answers on the disclosure to interested parties of draft
definitive findings of anti-subsidy investigation into imports of battery
electric vehicles from China

Brussels, 20 August 2024

Why have the proposed duty rates changed?

The small upward or downward adjustments to the duty rates of the sampled companies reflect
technical corrections based on substantiated comments received from the interested parties on the
provisional measures.

These revisions show that the Commission fully respects all relevant rules and obligations, and bases
its findings strictly on facts and evidence.

It similarly proves that the greatest care is taken to ensure that the investigation is both robust and
correct.

Moreover, it proves that the EU is fully transparent and does not fear submitting the accuracy of its
calculations to detailed inspection by the companies concerned and does not hesitate to adjust its
findings when warranted.

The revision of the rate applicable to “cooperating, non-sampled companies” resulted from a
technical correction in the average calculation.

Would the duties be added on top of the current import duties of 10%?

Yes, countervailing duties would be added on top of the ordinary import duty of 10% levied on
imports of battery electric vehicles.

Why did Tesla receive an individual duty rate?

As announced at the provisional measures stage, Tesla submitted a substantiated request for an
“individual examination” to determine its duty level based on the specific subsidies it received.

This request has been under thorough examination and the assessment of the level of subsidies
received is reflected in the duty levels at the definitive stage.

The Commission verified the information during the verification visit in China and conducted the
same checks as of the other sampled Chinese exporting producers.

Any differences in duty levels reflect the varying levels of subsidization among the different schemes,
which were affected by various elements, such as the level of cooperation and the different
organizational structures in areas like financing.

Why did the Commission decide against the retroactive collection of the duties?

On 6 March 2024 the Commission started the registration of imports of battery electric vehicles from
China in view of the potential retroactive collection of duties. The findings of the investigation, as
outlined in the draft definitive measures disclosed today, indicate that the legal requirements for the
retroactive collection of duties are not fulfilled. Accordingly, there will be no retroactive collection of
provisional countervailing duties or retroactive collection of duties for the registered imports for the 3
months period before the imposition of provisional duties.

Therefore, the amounts secured by way of the provisional countervailing duty, should be released
and not collected. A final decision on this matter will only be adopted upon the publication of the
definitive regulation by 30 October 2024, at the latest.

Why have certain joint ventures with EU producers – which originally did not import during
the investigation period – been granted ‘new exporter' status and will thus benefit from the
lower duty rate for non-sampled cooperating companies?

Several Chinese exporting producers, including certain joint ventures with EU producers, which did

not initially export during the investigation period and would be subject to the higher residual duty
rate, requested to be included in the list of cooperating producers in order to benefit from the lower
duty rate foreseen for their related companies.

The Commission further investigated this issue. Among the parameters analysed, elements such as
being related to a cooperating producer, having production of BEVs -or having substantiated
evidence of plans and investments for the production of BEVs - during the investigation period, and
imminent exports to the Union, were considered.

The draft definitive findings therefore conclude that, with the exception of an unjustified request,
these companies should benefit from the duty established for the cooperating group in which they
are integrated. The decisions taken on this subject are in line with our legal framework and WTO-
compatible.

What are the next steps?

On 20 August 2024 the Commission disclosed to interested parties, including Chinese companies
and Member States, its definitive findings in the anti-subsidy investigation. The Government of China
was also notified and received full disclosure.

This final disclosure takes into account comments by interested parties and hearings held with them
following the imposition of provisional measures in July 2024, as well as the conclusion of a number
of investigative steps that had not been finalised at provisional stage.

Interested parties now have 10 days - until 30 August 2024 - to provide comments and request
hearings on the final disclosure.

Once the Commission has assessed the comments received by interested parties, the draft regulation
will be submitted to the Trade Defence Instruments Committee (‘TDC'), composed by
representatives of the Member States.

The opinion of Member States will be delivered under the examination procedure, according to
Comitology Rules (Commission proposal adopted unless there is qualified majority against it). This
vote will have binding effect.

A Commission Implementing Regulation including the definitive findings in the investigation will be
published in the Official Journal by 30 October 2024, at the latest.

Any potential measures will be in force for 5 years, extendable upon substantiated request and
subsequent review.

When will Member States vote on the duties?

The TDC holds regular meetings - the Commission cannot confirm at which meeting the draft
regulation will be discussed.

Does the WTO consultation request on the provisional measures submitted by China have
an impact on the anti-subsidy investigation?

The two proceedings follow separate tracks. There is no impact on the timeline of the ongoing
investigation, the investigation follows its course.

The EU is carefully studying all the details of China's WTO consultation request and will react to the
Chinese authorities in due course, according to WTO procedures.

The Commission is confident of the WTO-compatibility of its investigation and provisional measures.

QANDA/24/4302

Press contacts:

Olof GILL (+32 2 296 59 66)
Ana APSE-PAESE (+32 2 298 73 48)

General public inquiries: Europe Direct by phone 00 800 67 89 10 11 or by email

---

## 原始檔案

- 主文：`113.08.20駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟對中國電動車進行反補貼調查事.pdf`
- 附件 1：`113.08.20駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟對中國電動車進行反補貼調查事_附件1.pdf`
- 附件 2：`113.08.20駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟對中國電動車進行反補貼調查事_附件2.pdf`