---
title: "駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟與印度召開第2屆貿易暨科技理事會(TTC)情形"
date: 2025-02-28
country: 歐-歐盟兼比利時
source: 駐外新聞
tags:
  - 駐外新聞
  - 歐-歐盟兼比利時
clipped: 2026-06-22
---

# 駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟與印度召開第2屆貿易暨科技理事會(TTC)情形

**發文日期**：2025-02-28　｜　**地區**：歐-歐盟兼比利時

---

## 主文

European Commission - Statement

Joint statement on the second meeting of the EU-India Trade and
Technology Council

Brussels, 28 February 2025

The second meeting of the EU-India Trade and Technology Council (TTC) took place in New Delhi on
28 February 2025. Executive Vice-President for Tech Sovereignty, Security and Democracy Henna
Virkkunen, Commissioner for Trade and Economic Security, Interinstitutional Relations and
Transparency Maros Šefčovič and Commissioner for Startups, Research and Innovation Ekaterina
Zaharieva co-chaired on the EU side. It was co-chaired on the Indian side by India's External Affairs
Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar; Commerce and Industry Minister Shri Piyush Goyal; and Minister for
Electronics and Information Technology Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi had
established the EU-India TTC in April 2022 as a key bilateral platform to address challenges at the
confluence of trade, trusted technology and security. The European Union and India, as two large and
vibrant democracies with open market economies, shared values and pluralistic societies, are natural
partners in a multipolar world.

The deepening of bilateral relations and the growing strategic convergence between the EU and India
respond to the shifting dynamics of the global geopolitical landscape and a common interest in
promoting global stability, economic security, and sustainable and inclusive growth. In that respect,
both sides emphasized again the importance of the rules-based international order and the full respect
for the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity, transparency, and peaceful resolution of
disputes. The TTC reflects a shared acknowledgement between the EU and India of the increasingly
critical links between trade and technology, the potential of cooperation on these issues to enhance
the economies of both partners, and the need to work together on the related security challenges.
Both sides note the potential of their partnership to increase resilience, strengthen connectivity and
drive forward the development of green and clean technologies.

The first meeting of the EU-India TTC was held in Brussels on 16 May 2023. The TTC Ministerial
Meeting provided political guidance for the way forward. Subsequently on 24 November 2023, a
stock-taking meeting in virtual mode reviewed the progress made by the three TTC working groups.

Working Group 1 on Strategic Technologies, Digital Governance, and Digital Connectivity

The European Union and India reaffirmed the importance of deepening their digital cooperation in line
with their shared values through the Working Group 1 on Strategic Technologies, Digital Governance,
and Digital Connectivity. Both sides committed to leverage their respective strengths to accelerate a
human-centric digital transformation and the development of advanced and trustworthy digital
technologies such as AI, semiconductors, High-Performance Computing and 6G, which will benefit
both economies and societies. Both sides committed to work jointly to strengthen EU-India research
and innovation for this purpose to further enhance competitiveness, while increasing their economic
security. Both sides committed to promoting global connectivity in a cyber-secure digital ecosystem.

Recognizing the importance of Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) for the development of open and
inclusive digital economies and digital societies, the European Union and India agreed to collaborate
on working towards interoperability of their respective DPIs that respect human rights and protect
personal data, privacy, and intellectual property rights. Both sides further committed to jointly
promote DPIs solutions to third countries and further emphasized the need of mutual recognition of e-
signatures to enhance cross-border digital transactions and foster mutual economic growth.

Both sides emphasized their commitment to further strengthen the resilience of semiconductor supply
chains and promote collaboration in the field of semiconductors. To that end, they agreed to explore
joint R&D in the field of chip design, heterogeneous integration, sustainable semiconductor

technologies, technology development for advanced processes for process design kit (PDK), among
others. Both sides shall promote the strengthening of the EU and Indian semiconductor ecosystems to
enhance technological capabilities and ensure supply chain resilience by developing sustainable,
secure and diversified semiconductor production capacities. Furthermore, they committed to
developing a dedicated programme that will facilitate talent exchanges and foster semiconductor skills
among students and young professionals.

The two sides reiterated their commitment to safe, secure, trustworthy, human-centric, sustainable
and responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI) and to promote this vision on the international level. In
addition, with a view to ensuring continued and impactful cooperation on AI, the European AI Office
and India AI Mission agreed to deepen cooperation, encouraging an ecosystem of innovation and
fostering information exchange on common open research questions for developing trustworthy AI.
They also agreed to enhance cooperation on large language models, and to harness the potential of
AI for human development and common good, including through joint projects such as developing
tools and frameworks for ethical and responsible AI. These will build on the progress made under R&D
collaboration on high-performance computing applications in the areas of natural hazards, climate
change, and bioinformatics.

The EU and India welcomed the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Bharat 6G
Alliance and the EU 6G Smart Networks and Services Industry Association for aligning research and
development priorities and creating secured and trusted telecommunications and resilient supply
chains. Both sides will also enhance cooperation on IT and telecoms standardisation with a particular
focus on promoting interoperable global standards.

Furthermore, the two sides agreed to work towards bridging the digital skills gap, explore mutual
recognition of certifications, and promote legal pathways of skilled professionals and exchange of
talent.

Both sides agreed to collaborate on the implementation of the Global Digital Compact, agreed by
consensus at the UN General Assembly in September 2024, as a key instrument for delivering on their
shared objectives. They noted the need to ensure that the forthcoming World Summit on Information
Society +20 maintains global support for and enhances the multi-stakeholder model of Internet
governance.

Working Group 2 on Clean and Green Technologies

The European Union and India recalled the importance of the priority workstreams identified under
Working Group 2 on Clean and Green Technologies for achieving net zero emissions by 2070 and
2050 for the European Union and India, respectively. Achieving these targets will require significant
investment in new clean technologies and standards. An emphasis on research and innovation (R&I)
will foster technological collaboration and exchange of best practices between the EU and India. In
parallel, supporting technological innovations for market uptake will enhance access to the respective
markets by EU and Indian enterprises and facilitate wide adoption of innovative technologies. This
opens perspectives for cooperation between EU and Indian incubators, SMEs and start-ups and
building human resource capability and capacity in such technologies.

In this regard, both sides agreed on joint research cooperation through exceptional coordinated calls
on recycling of batteries for electric vehicles (EVs), marine plastic litter, and waste-to-hydrogen. The
estimated total joint budget will be about EUR 60 million from the Horizon Europe programme and
from matching Indian contributions. On recycling of batteries for EVs, the focus will be on battery
circularity through different kinds of flexible/low cost/easy to recycle batteries. In marine plastic litter,
the focus will be on developing technologies for detection, measurement and analysis of aquatic litter
and for mitigation of the cumulative impact of pollution on the marine environment. On waste-to-
hydrogen, the focus will be on developing technologies with greater efficiency to produce hydrogen
from biogenic wastes.

The two sides recalled the importance of the substantive exchanges between experts in the identified
areas of cooperation as the basis for future action. Indian experts have participated in a training and
mutual learning exercise on EV interoperability and Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) at the Joint
Research Centre (JRC) E-Mobility Lab in Ispra, Italy in January 2024. Furthermore, a joint hybrid
workshop on EV Charging Technologies (Standardisation and Testing) was organised at the
Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), Pune, India and online, to deepen the EU-Indian
dialogue and the industry's engagement in charging infrastructure standardisation processes with

India. The two sides also concluded a Matchmaking Event to identify, support and organise exchanges
between EU and Indian startups in technology for recycling of batteries for EVs. Experts also jointly
discussed assessment and monitoring tools for marine plastic litter. Finally, an “Ideathon” fostering
EU-India collaboration to co-create practical solutions involving all stakeholders for addressing marine
plastic pollution effectively is in preparation.

Both sides agreed to explore cooperation on harmonising standards for EV charging infrastructure,
including cooperative, pre-normative research for harmonised testing solutions and knowledge
exchange in the domain of e-mobility. They also agreed to explore how to enhance collaboration in
the field of hydrogen-related safety standards, the science of standards as well as the market uptake
of wastewater treatment technologies as outcomes of previous jointly conducted research projects.

Working Group 3 on Trade, Investment and Resilient Value Chains

The European Union and India noted productive discussions under Working Group 3 on Trade,
Investment and Resilient Value Chains with a view to building a closer economic partnership between
the European Union and India. In an increasingly challenging geopolitical context, both sides
committed to work together for creating wealth and shared prosperity. The work under Working Group
3 complements the ongoing negotiations on a Free Trade Agreement (FTA), an Investment Protection
Agreement (IPA) and a Geographical Indications Agreement which are proceeding on separate tracks.

Both sides committed to fostering resilient and future-ready value chains by prioritizing transparency,
predictability, diversification, security and sustainability. Both sides expressed satisfaction with the
progress made on Agri-food, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Clean Technologies sectors
and agreed on work plans in these three fields with the aim of promoting value chains that can
withstand global challenges.

In agriculture, the EU and India intend to collaborate on contingency planning for food security and
welcomed common efforts on shared research and innovations needs regarding climate-resilient
practices, crop diversification and infrastructure improvements as promoted for cooperation through
the G20 framework. In the pharmaceutical sector, both sides aim to enhance transparency and
security in Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) supply chains by mapping vulnerabilities,
promoting sustainable manufacturing, and establishing early warning systems to prevent disruptions.
Clean technology cooperation centers on strengthening supply chains for solar energy, offshore wind,
and clean hydrogen by exchanging information on sectoral capabilities and investment incentives and
Research, Development and Innovation priorities as well as on methodologies to assess
vulnerabilities, discussing approaches to minimize trade barriers and exploring possible synergies of
the supply chains. Across these sectors, the EU and India are working to foster investment, exchange
best practices, and mitigate risks through regular dialogues, research collaborations, and business-to-
business engagements, ensuring supply chain resilience and sustainable economic growth.

Both sides acknowledged that relevant priority market access issues are being addressed through
cooperation within the TTC framework. The EU side appreciated the Indian initiatives to approve the
marketing of several EU plant products while the Indian side appreciated the listing of a number of
Indian aquaculture establishments and taking up the issue of equivalence for agricultural organic
products. Both sides agreed to pursue their efforts on these topics, under the TTC review mechanism,
and to continue their engagement on remaining issues flagged by each other.

The two sides noted the exchanges regarding best practices in the screening of Foreign Direct
Investments, which is an area of growing importance to foster economic security.

The EU and India strengthened their commitment towards the multilateral trading system as an
anchor in the current challenging geopolitical context. At the same time, they recognized the need to
bring necessary reform to the WTO so that it is able to address efficiently and effectively issues of
interest to Members. Both sides also recognized the importance of a functioning dispute settlement
system. For this purpose, they agreed to deepen their dialogue and engagement to help the WTO
deliver concrete outcomes, including at MC14.

Both sides have held in-depth discussions on trade and decarbonization through several bilateral
channels and have engaged jointly with stakeholders, especially on the implementation of the EU's
carbon border mechanism (CBAM). Both sides discussed the challenges arising out of CBAM
implementation, in particular for the small and medium enterprises and agreed to continue addressing
them.

The co-chairs reaffirmed their commitment to expanding and deepening their engagement under the
TTC and to working together to fulfill the goals laid out in this successful second meeting of the TTC.
They agreed to meet again for the third meeting of TTC within one year from now.

STATEMENT/25/643

2025/2/28 下午6:33

Key outcomes of the second EU-India Trade and Technology Council | Shaping Europe’s digital future

Shaping Europe’s digital future

DIGIBYTE Publication 28 February 2025

Key outcomes of the second
EU-India Trade and Technology
Council

The European Union and India held their second ministerial meeting of the Trade and Technology

Council (TTC) today in New Delhi, as part of one of the first visits by the College of Commissioners early
in the new mandate.

GettyImages © Alexis84

The TTC is a key forum to deepen the strategic partnership on trade and technology between the two
partners. Geostrategic challenges have reinforced the EU and India's common interest in ensuring

security, prosperity and sustainable development based on shared values. The TTC will help foster EU-
India bilateral trade, which is at historical highs, with €124 billion worth of goods traded in 2023. In
2023, €60 billion were traded in services, of which €20 billion were digital services.

The ministerial meeting was co-chaired by Executive Vice-President for Tech Sovereignty, Security and
Democracy Henna Virkkunen, Commissioner for Trade and Economic Security Maroš Šefčovič, as

well as Commissioner for Startups, Research and Innovation Ekaterina Zaharieva, on the EU side. On
the Indian side, there was India’s External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar and Commerce, Industry

https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/key-outcomes-second-eu-india-trade-and-technology-council

1/4

2025/2/28 下午6:33

Key outcomes of the second EU-India Trade and Technology Council | Shaping Europe’s digital future

Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and Minister for Railways, Information & Broadcasting, Electronics &

Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnaw.

Key outcomes

The EU and India have set up the TTC as a coordination platform to address key trade, trusted

technology and security challenges. The ministerial meeting relied on the accomplishments of three

working groups.

Strategic technologies, digital governance and digital connectivity

In line with their shared values, both partners reaffirmed the importance of deepening their digital

cooperation. They committed to accelerating a human-centric digital transformation, as well as the

development of advanced and trustworthy AI, semiconductors, High-Performance Computing and 6G

for the benefit of both economies and societies.

Concretely, the EU and India:

agreed to work towards the interoperability of their respective Digital Public Infrastructures
(DPIs), ensuring they respect human rights and protect personal data, privacy and intellectual

property rights
emphasised the need for e-signatures to be mutually recognised in order to enhance cross-

border digital transactions while supporting the economic growth of the two partners.

will explore joint research and development in the field of chip design. This shows the two
partners’ commitment to further strengthen the resilience of semiconductor supply chains.

will encourage innovation and information exchange by deepening the cooperation between the

European AI Office and India AI Mission, including on large language models (LLMs), and
harness the potential of AI for human development and common good, including through joint

projects such as developing tools and frameworks for ethical and responsible AI.

welcomed the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the EU 6G Smart
Networks and Services Industry Association and the Indian Bharat 6G Alliance towards secured

and trusted telecommunications and resilient supply chains.

The EU and India were also able to confirm financial support from both sides for the GANANA project
which seeks to foster a long-term partnership between the two in the development and application of

,

HPC solutions. The project, launched in 2025, receives EU funding from EuroHPC JU with a total budget

of nearly €5m stemming from Horizon Europe. GANANA will enhance cooperation not only on HPC, but
also help towards common efforts in building capacities for AI applications.

Green and clean energy technologies

Both sides highlighted the progress made on Green and Clean Energy Technologies, which has been

instrumental in advancing our shared ambition of achieving net zero emissions. The EU aims to reach

this goal by 2050, while India is targeting 2070. Through their cooperation in battery recycling for
electric vehicles they successfully connected Indian and EU startups with potential partners and

investors. They also held a workshop on E-vehicles charging standards earlier in the week.

Looking ahead the EU and India will launch:

Joint research cooperation under the Horizon Europe program, through exceptional

coordinated calls with India. These will be published in 2025, focusing on key areas such as
marine plastic litter and waste-to-renewable hydrogen. Additional calls on recycling of batteries

for electrical vehicles are envisaged for 2026, and potential future cooperation on wastewater
treatment technologies. Together they sum up a joint investment of around €60 million.

An "Ideathon" on marine plastic pollution, where Indian and EU partners will create practical

solutions to address this pressing issue.

https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/key-outcomes-second-eu-india-trade-and-technology-council

2/4

2025/2/28 下午6:33

Key outcomes of the second EU-India Trade and Technology Council | Shaping Europe’s digital future

A dialogue on harmonising standards for the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, which

will facilitate mutual access to these growing markets.

Trade, investment and resilient value chains

India is an important trade and investment partner for the EU, with total bilateral trade in goods and
services reaching €184 billion in 2023. Considering the rapid growth of the sizeable and dynamic Indian

market, there is significant further potential in EU-India trade relations. The EU and India are currently

negotiating a free trade agreement, an investment protection agreement and an agreement on
geographical indications. The current geopolitical and economic context makes the conclusion of these

talks a priority for both sides.

In such a context, closer trade relations are particularly valuable to secure and diversify both sides’

value chains of inputs and final products, thus strengthening both sides’ economic security. With that in
mind, at today’s TTC ministerial meeting the EU and India committed to fostering resilient and future-

ready value chains notably by collaborating on contingency planning for food security and on

sustainability of food systems, cooperating on the establishment of early warning systems to anticipate
and mitigate disruptions in the supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients, and exploring synergies in

clean value chains for technologies such as solar energy, offshore wind and green hydrogen.

The EU and India also:

Made progress on a number of market access issues and agreed to continue their engagement
to address these.

Exchanged best practices on the screening of Foreign Direct Investments, a particularly

important area of collaboration for enhancing both sides’ economic security.
Reaffirmed their commitment to the multilateral trading system, while recognising the need to

reform the WTO.

Held in-depth discussions on trade and decarbonisation, especially on the implementation of the
EU’s Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM).

Background

The EU-India TTC was first launched on 6 February 2023 and the announcement by President of the
European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, on 25 April
2022 in New Delhi.

The EU-India Trade and Technology Council is the first one established with any partner for India. It will

complement the Digital Partnerships already launched with Asian partners as part of the EU Strategy

for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific

Related topics

Creating a digital society Connectivity Advanced Digital Technologies International relations Artificial intelligence

Related content

https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/key-outcomes-second-eu-india-trade-and-technology-council

3/4

2025/2/28 下午6:33

Key outcomes of the second EU-India Trade and Technology Council | Shaping Europe’s digital future

EU and India deepen strategic engagement in second Trade and Technology Council (/en/news/eu-and-india-

deepen-strategic-engagement-second-trade-and-technology-council)

PRESS RELEASE | 28 February 2025

The European Union and India held the second ministerial meeting of the EU-India Trade and

Technology Council (TTC) yesterday in New Delhi.

Last update

28 February 2025

Print as PDF

https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/key-outcomes-second-eu-india-trade-and-technology-council

4/4

European Commission - Statement

Statement by President von der Leyen at the joint press point with Indian
Prime Minister Modi

New Delhi, 28 February 2025

Dear Prime Minister Modi, dear Narendra,

Ministers,

Commissioners,

Excellencies,

Friends,

Thank you very much for the warm welcome. It is a taste of India's legendary hospitality. Today is no
ordinary day. Europe and India are coming together. And, as I read in the news, so are the planets.
Indeed, today, seven planets in our solar system come into perfect alignment. That is a very
outstanding event. They say that this event signals transformation and growth. It is exactly the
moment we find ourselves in. The planets are aligned – and so are Europe and India.

I am here today with the whole College of Commissioners. Indeed, it is our first visit outside Europe
since we took office in December. This shows how much we value our partnership. We want to take it
to new heights. India is a like-minded friend. We are the two largest democracies in the world. And
under your leadership, Prime Minister, it has been thriving. We are bound by shared convictions and
values. From resilient supply chains to our shared interest in a free and open Indo-Pacific, we are
working together. Today's exchanges will set the path for the future of our relationship. We have
agreed to work on a new Strategic Agenda. I see three main avenues.

First, we will work together on economic growth. The potential is immense. Europe is already India's
biggest trading partner. Last year alone, we exchanged EUR 120 billion worth of goods. And over the
past two decades, our trade has tripled. All this is proof that our businesses and people want to work
together. One of the best examples of this partnership is the new Federation of European Businesses
in India. It brings together 6,000 EU companies, which have created 8 million direct and indirect jobs
in this economy. We have tasked our teams to build on this momentum and finalise our Free Trade
Agreement before the end of this year. We are expecting a lot of our trade negotiators, we told them
they should surprise us. Now more than ever, the geopolitical context asks for decisive action. At the
same time, we must take our Trade and Technology Council to the next level and connect research,
innovation and market uptake. This allows us to tackle important economic challenges together. And
to build robust and diverse supply chains such as for example semi-conductors, a very important topic
we have been working intensively on. Because we know that economic security and growth go hand in
hand. By sourcing the products we need from partners we trust, we avoid harmful dependencies. And
of course we build stronger economies.

The second avenue we should explore is a common tech agenda. On clean tech, together we
champion the International Solar Alliance. We agreed to launch a Joint Task Force on green hydrogen.
But today I want to focus on digital technologies, where you excel. We are both powerhouses of
innovation and entrepreneurship – the kind that only democracies can nurture. We share the belief
that technology should serve the people, not the other way around. And here Artificial Intelligence is a
prime example. It is advancing at a scale and speed never seen before. Dear Narendra, at the Paris
AI Summit you said, AI is writing the code of humanity, you are so right. I am convinced that Europe
and India working together can shape a future in which AI is a driver of a positive change in our
economies and societies. In Paris we both have highlighted the advantages of a cooperative model for
AI development where the innovators have access to quality data and computing resources. I am glad
to note that AI is a major focus of the Trade and Technology Council. The European AI Office and

India Al Mission also agree to deepen cooperation. And we will apply AI in the areas of natural
hazards, climate change and bioinformatics. AI should be at the heart of our Strategic Agenda. The
next AI Summit hosted by you, Prime Minister, will take us forward. You can count on the European
Union that this Summit is going to be a big success.

Our cooperation on digital in not limited to AI. We are aiming at the interoperability of our two digital
public infrastructures, which actually are the world's largest and most advanced. India's Aadhaar and
the EU digital wallet aim to offer public and private services to nearly 2 billion citizens.
Interoperability of our digital identities will strengthen ties between the EU and India even more. Our
digital cooperation has also an ambitious industrial agenda. We are committed to strengthen
cooperation in semiconductor R&D and manufacturing. We are cooperating in the future of secure
telecommunication networks. In particular, our industrial associations have agreed to closely
cooperate on 6G.

Of course, technology is only as good as the people who can use it. That is why digital skills are so
important. This is a topic very close to my heart. People are essential for Europe's competitiveness.
Yet, we face a gap. India can help to close it. Let us increase student and skilled worker exchanges.
Let us share expertise, talent and experience.

The third avenue I see is deeper cooperation in security and defence. For Europe, India is a pillar of
certainty in an increasingly uncertain world. We know that authoritarian states are getting bolder,
ignoring borders and threatening peace at sea. Now is the time to step up our security and defence
cooperation on land, at sea and in space. Cybersecurity has never been so crucial. Our Cyber dialogue
offers a platform for effective cooperation and information exchanges. Because threats are evolving,
becoming more sophisticated by the day. Maritime security is just as essential. The Indian Ocean is a
lifeline for global trade. Ensuring its security is vital, not just for India but for the whole world. We
should also explore expanding our joint naval exercises, building on our very successful operations in
the Gulf of Guinea and the Red Sea. Finally, we should deepen cooperation in protecting the cables
that ensure data connectivity between India and the European Union. On defence, we see avenues for
cooperation. India is looking into diversifying its military supply and access to new capabilities, so
does Europe. So, both India and the European Union can be partners on this topic.

Prime Minister, dear Narendra,

Ministers,

Commissioners,

We are going back to Europe with fresh ideas for the future of our cooperation and for the Summit
later this year. India and the EU are together greater than the sum of our parts. Together, we send a
powerful and positive signal to the world. The planets are aligned – and so are Europe and India.

STATEMENT/25/642

Press contacts:

Paula PINHO (+32 2 29 20815)
Arianna PODESTA (+32 2 298 70 24)
Stefan DE KEERSMAECKER (+32 2 29 84680)

General public inquiries: Europe Direct by phone 00 800 67 89 10 11  or by email

Related media

 European Commission President Ursula von der LEYEN and the College of Commissioners in India

 Visit of Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, to India

---

## 原始檔案

- 主文：`114.02.28駐歐盟兼駐比利時代表處經濟組_有關歐盟與印度召開第2屆貿易暨科技理事會(TTC)情形.pdf`