---
title: "駐斯洛伐克代表處經濟組_有關本組推動與斯洛伐克經濟部雙邊經貿合作情形事"
date: 2025-03-13
country: 歐-斯洛伐克
source: 駐外新聞
tags:
  - 駐外新聞
  - 歐-斯洛伐克
clipped: 2026-06-22
---

# 駐斯洛伐克代表處經濟組_有關本組推動與斯洛伐克經濟部雙邊經貿合作情形事

**發文日期**：2025-03-13　｜　**地區**：歐-斯洛伐克

---

## 主文

Current Status   
and 
  Future Perspectives   
of   
Economic Cooperation   
between   
Taiwan and Slovakia 

Taipei Representative Office, Bratislava 

March 2025 

1. Taiwan-Slovakia bilateral economic relations 

amount 

items 

154 million USD 

314 million USD 

LCD, screws, 
routers 

cars, compressors, 
tires 

160 million USD 

----- 

Trade (2024) 

Slovakia buys 
from Taiwan 

Slovakia sells to 
Taiwan 

Slovakia enjoys 
trade surplus 

Source: Taiwan Customs 

Investment 

amount/jobs 

main investors 

Taiwan’s 
investment in 
Slovakia 

450 million EUR, 
creating more than 
4,000 jobs 

Foxconn, Delta, 
AUO, Bizlink 

Source: TROB 

Main Taiwanese Investors in Slovakia   
  Foxconn 
Factory  in  Nitra,  producing  printed  circuit  boards  for  EV 
headlight  modules,  assembling  TV  sets  and  TV  boxes.  It 
employs about 2,050 people. 

  Delta 
Factories  in  Dubnica  nad  Váhom  &  Liptovský  Hrádok, 
manufacturing motors and chargers for EVs, power systems 
for  communications,  information  electronics,  industrial 
automation  and  inverters  for  solar  cells.  It  employs  about 
1,700 people.   

1 

Newly  added 
procurement in 2024 & 12 million Euro in 2025 

investment:  16  million  Euro  for 

land 

  AUO 
Factory  in  Trenčín,  providing  maintenance  services  for 
laptops, flat panels, monitors, etc. It employs 100 people. 

  Bizlink 
Factory  in  Trenčianske  Bohuslavice,  which  was  newly 
established  in  May  2022  for  the  manufacture  of  cables  for 
data  center,  semiconductor,  medical  industries.  It  employs 
about 902 people.   

New  investment: Acquisition  of  Easys  s.  r.  o.  in  2024  (An 
investment of approximately 51.5 million Euro, supported by 
CEE Investment Fund from National Development Council, 
Taiwan) 

2. TW Funds supporting Slovak companies 

(1)  CEE Investment Fund – 200 million USD provided by 
the government backed venture-capital fund Taiwania. 
It has already invested in 9 CEE companies with a total 
amount of 34.9 million EUR, 2 successful projects in 
Slovakia including: 
I. 
II.  Sensoneo: 3 million EUR   

Photoneo: 8 million EUR 

(2)  Credit Fund – 1 billion USD provided by EXIM Bank, 
Taiwan.  Slovak  companies,  which  are  doing  or 
planning to do business with Taiwan (trade, investment, 
R&D,  and  so  on,  no  sector  restricted)  are  eligible  to 
apply. 3 years’ financial report is required.   

2 

3. Recent developments and achievements   

(1)  Semiconductor Capacity Building Assistance Project 

-  Based  on  the  4-year  “2022-2025  Taiwan-Slovak 
Strategic Industry Development Plan”, the Slovak 
Academy  of  Science  (SAS),  Slovak  Technical 
University  in  Bratislava  (STUBA),  and  Taiwan’s 
Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) are 
2 
of 
cooperating 
semiconductor 
research  on 
semiconductor  power 
developing  compound 
devices  such  as  Gallium  Nitride  (GaN)  and 
Gallium Oxide (Ga2O3) .   

the 
labs  and 

establishment 

joint 

for 

-  Currently 3 sides are at the 2nd stage and ITRI came 
to Slovakia during June 17-21, 2024 to inspect the 
laboratories.  A  progress  review  presentation  was 
held at STUBA on June 17, 2024.   

-  Talent training: in 2025, STUBA and SAS will send 
7 researchers to Taiwan for on-site training at ITRI. 

-  Slovakia has a strong foothold in the car industry. 
One exciting aspect of the strategic plan is the R&D 
in electric vehicle-related technologies. The results 
of R&D can be applied with Taiwanese companies 
in Slovakia, such as Delta Electronics and Foxconn. 
between 
By 
companies, academia, and the talents, we will help 
the  industry  in  Slovakia  move  toward  more 
the 
advanced  high-tech, 
expansion of investment and job opportunities. 

thereby  benefiting 

collaboration 

facilitating 

the 

-  Furthermore,  with  Taiwan’s  TSMC  investing  in 
Dresden,  Germany,  we 
tremendous 
opportunity  to  combine  the  achievements  of  this 
plan with the Taiwanese business ecosystem in this 

see  a 

3 

region. Slovakia is not only enhancing its industrial 
capabilities but also cultivating a skilled workforce 
ready  to  meet  the  demands  of  the  future.  This  is 
truly what we called: Virtuous Circle of Prosperity. 
Unlike  conventional  cooperation  that  is  focus  on 
the manufacturing, this project is for the sustainable 
development of the industry. 

(2)  Taiwanese-Slovak  Commission 

on 

Economic 

Cooperation   

-  There were 3 successful sessions held from 2021 to 
2023. The  3rd  Session  was  held  in Taipei  in  June 
2023, led by former State Secretary of the Ministry 
of Economy, Mr. Peter Švec.   

-  Both  sides  held  Working  Group  meetings  and 
discussed  issues  including  capacity  building  on 
semiconductor,  electric  vehicles  supply  chain 
cooperation, 
tourism,  culture  and 
education  cooperation,  in  which  8  MoUs  were 
signed. 

start-ups, 

-  10  Slovak  companies  participated  the  delegation 
and  had  more  than  60  B2B  meetings  in  Taipei, 
creating potential  business  opportunity  around  25 
million USD. 

(3)  Consolidated list of agreements/MoUs signed between 
Taiwan and Slovakia during 2021-2023 (as Annex). 

4. Future cooperation 

-  Potential investment   

As  a  result  of  EU  de-risking  policy  and  restructuring  to 
build resilient supply chain, many manufacturing bases are 

4 

shifting out from China, hence created another opportunity 
for Europe and Slovakia. Under EU’s calls for a balanced 
recalibration and reinforcement of the industrial, trade and 
foreign  policies,  there  are  more  and  more  Taiwanese 
companies,  under  the  request  of  their  customers,  are 
planning  to  invest  in  Central  and  Eastern  Europe  (CEE) 
countries.  The  ones  who  came  to  Slovakia  recently 
includes auto parts, and medical sectors.   

(1) Delta Electronics 

  Sector: EVs supplier, electronics 
  Venue: Delta’s expansion in Dubnica nad Váhom has been 
successfully approved by the headquarter in Taiwan.   

  Products: on-board chargers 
  Investment  scale:  increase  approximately  by  28  million 
EUR  in  the  coming  5  years  for  land  purchase  about  10 
hectares  or  more  and  the  equipment  cost.  (Delta  has 
added16 million Euro for land procurement in 2024 & 12 
million Euro for operation capitals in 2025) 

  New jobs: 300 people 
  Annual sales: expected 280-460 million Euro/per year 

(2) MacAuto 

  Sector:  auto-parts  (supplier  to  VW,  Volvo  and  Kia,  and 

also the one among top 3 in terms of market share) 

  Products: car interiors, windows curtains 
  Venue: Nizna 
  Investment scale: 1.7 million EUR   
  New jobs: 130 people 
  MacAuto  is  has  selected  Nizna,  Slovakia,  for  the 
renovation of the plant, with construction set to begin in 
June 2025 and small-scale production targeted for 2026.   

5 

(3) Free Bionics 

  Sector: Medical equipment   
  Products: exoskeleton robotics for limbs rehabilitation   
  Investment plan:   

-  Financially supported by the renowned Taiwanese ICT 
company  Wistron,  Free  Bionics  is  one  of  the  most 
prestigious and innovative medical suppliers in Taiwan. 
Through the connection with TROB, Free Bionics has 
inquired  with  SBA and  SARIO  about financial  costs 
and incentives. 

-  Their  goal  is  to  establish  a  product  assembly  line  in 
CEE region and gain market access to healthcare and 
targeting  Ukraine's 
rehabilitation, 
reconstruction efforts. 

specifically 

(4) Singular Wings Medical 

  Sector: Medical equipment   
  Products:  wearable  and  non-invasive  monitoring  digital 

bio-marker for blood pressure and glucose   

  Investment plan:   

-  Under  the  Linkou  Startups  Softlanding  program, 
Singular  Wings  met  its  Slovak  partner,  Novata  Art 
s.r.o.,  and  established  a  joint  venture  in  Slovakia  in 
2024,  named  Danubia  Deep  Sector  Technologies 
Innovation, s.r.o.   

-  They  plan  to  set  up  a  production  line  in  Slovakia  to 
manufacture  medical  sensor  products  and  conduct 
R&D in cooperation, supported by EU funding. 

5. Talent Cultivation 

6 

the  Taiwanese 
To  help  Slovakia  cultivate 
government  has  provided  various  scholarships  for  Slovak 
students to study in Taiwan. Those programs include: 

talents, 

(1)  Taiwan Semiconductor Scholarship specialized in IC 

Design and semiconductor related studies. 

In August 2023, 14 students from STUBA participated 
in  the  short-term  courses  in  Taiwan.  The  2nd  round 
program was held during December 4-15, 2023 and 19 
Slovak students have participated. 

(2)  Taiwan-Europe  Connectivity 

Scholarship 

for 

exchange students in various specializations 

(3)  Huayu Enrichment Scholarship for studying Mandarin 

language 

(4)  Taiwan Scholarship for long-term degree studying in 

various specializations 

Under  the  above  programs,  TROB  sent  45  people  from 
Slovakia to Taiwan in 2023.   

As in 2024, up to July, nearly 40 people have been invited 
to  Taiwan  for  various  training  programs,  including  short-
term  semiconductor  workshops,  ICDF,  and  talent  training 
for  the  "Taiwan-Slovak  Strategic  Industry  Development 
Plan." Among these participants are: 

1. In July 2024, TROB has sent 8 students (from University 
of  Zilina and Technical University  of Kosice)  to  attend 
the course in Taiwan.   

2. Taiwan  International  Cooperation  and  Development 
Fund  (ICDF)  offers  two-weeks  professional  education 
and training programs. Since 2024, TROB has invited 9 
people  from  Slovakia,  who  are  government  officials, 
representatives from selected sectors (industry, academy, 
NGOs,  etc.)  to  attend  the  training  programs,  areas 

7 

including 
semiconductors and SME digitalization.     

electrical 

vehicles, 

smart 

cities, 

We  believe  that  talents  are  the  future  for  the  industry 
development  and  this  cooperation  will  enhance  bilateral 
cooperation and help Slovakia to strengthen its talent pool 
in key industries.   

6. Supporting participation in Trade Fairs 

TROB invited 4 Slovak companies (booth subsidy provided 
by Taiwan) to exhibit at the Wine Show in November 2023 to 
promote Slovak wines. In addition to this, exhibitions such as 
Taipei  Cycle,  the  machinery  tools  show  (TIMTOS),  and 
AMPA (automobile and accessories) also popular, attracting 
Slovakian companies. 

Smart City Summit & EXPO(SCSE) 

Date: March 18-22, 2025 in Taiwan 

Theme: Digital and green Transformation 

In  2024,  there  were  more  than  46  countries,  112  cities  and 
nearly  470  cities  mayors  from  the  world  were  invited  to 
Taiwan.  Among  them,  TROB  has  invited  7  people  from 
Slovakia to visit the EXPO, those were from Bratislava Old 
Town, Zilina City, Comenius University, University of Zilina 
and Technical University of Kosice(TUKE).   

In  2025,  TROB  successfully  invited  representatives  from 
Bratislava  Region,  Banská  Bystrica  Region,  Pezinok  City, 
Bratislava  Old  Town,  Kežmarok  City,  Michalovce  City, 
Fiľakovo City, Košice City, Brezno City, Smart Cities Klub, 

8 

and Slovak Technical University, Bratislava(STUBA), which 
is the largest Slovak delegation to SCSE in recent years. 

TROB  will  continue  to  promote  and  support  Slovak 
companies to participate in trade fairs in Taiwan. Subsidies for 
visitors and exhibitors are available upon request.   

9 

Annex 

Agreements and MoUs 
signed between Taiwan and Slovakia during 2021-2023 

1.  Arrangement between Taipei Representative Office, Bratislava(TROB) & 

Slovak Economic and Cultural Office, Taipei(SECO) on Judicial 
Cooperation in Criminal Matters 

2.  Arrangement between Taipei Representative Office, Bratislava(TROB) & 

Slovak Economic and Cultural Office, Taipei(SECO) on Judicial 
Cooperation in Civil and Commercial Matters Arrangement on Judicial 
Cooperation 

3.  MoU between Taiwan Space Industry Development Association(TSIDA), 

3IPK & Decent on Space Cooperation 

4.  MoU between Hsinchu Science Park Bureau & Research Centre of 

University of Žilina  

5.  MoU between the Slovak Electric Vehicle Association(SEVA) & Taiwan 

Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’Association(TEEMA) 

6.  MoU between Taiwan Visitors Association(TVA) & Slovak Association of 

Tour Operators and Travel Agents(SACKA)   

7.  MoU between Slovak Business Agency(SBA) & Institute for Information 

Industry(III) on SME Digitlization  

8.  MoU between Asociácia Smart City Slovensko & Taipei Computer 

Association(TCA)   

9.  MoU between Smart Cities Klub & Chinese International Economic 

Cooperation Association Tawian(CIECA)   

10. MoU between Department of Industrial Technology, MOEA & Slovak 

Innovation and Energy Agency(SIEA) on R&D in Innovative Technologies

11. MoU between Taiwan External Trade Development Council(TAITRA) & 

Slovak Investment and Trade Development Agency(SARIO)  

12. MoU between Technical University of Košice(TUKE) & National Taipei 

University of Technology(Taipei Tech)  

13. MoU between Smart Cities Klub & Chinese International Economic 

Cooperation Association Tawian(CIECA) & Town of Dubnica nad Váhom

14. MoU between Technical University of Košice(TUKE) &Hsinchu Science 

Park Bureau 

10 

15. MoU between National Space Organization, National Applied Research 
Laboratories, Taiwan & Slovak Investment and Trade Development 
Agency(SARIO) 

16. MoU between Taipei Representative Office, Bratislava(TROB) & Slovak 
Economic and Cultural Office, Taipei(SECO) on Cooperation in the field 
of Tourism 

17. MoU between Slovak Academy of Sciences(SAS) & Academia 

Sinica(AS) 

18. MoU between Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava & National 

Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan 

19. MoU between National Sun Yat-sen University Taiwan & Slovak 

University of Technology in Bratislava(STUBA) 

20. MoU between Importers and Exporters Association of Taipei(IEAT) & 

Council of Slovak Exporters(CSE) 

21. MoU between Slovak Business Agency(SBA) & Startup Terrace Taiwan

22. MoU on Bilateral Cooperation in Healthcare between Taipei 

Representative Office, Bratislava(TROB) & Slovak Economic and 
Cultural Office, Taipei(SECO) 

23. MoU between Taipei Representative Office, Bratislava(TROB) & Slovak 
Economic and Cultural Office, Taipei(SECO) on Cooperation in the area 
of Culture  

24. Technical Service and License Agreement by and between Slovak 

University of Technology in Bratislava(STUBA) & Institute of Electrical 
Engineering, Slovak Academy of Sciences(SAS) & Industrial Technology 
Research Institute(ITRI) 

25. MoU between STUBA, SAS & ITRI on R&D Cooperation 
26. MoU between Faculty of Management, Comenius University Bratislava & 

National Sun-Yat Sen University 

27. MoU between Comenius University Bratislava & Yuan Ze University   
28. MoU between Faculty of Management, Comenius University Bratislava & 

School of Management, National Central University 

29. MoU between Slovak National Hydrogen Association(NVAS) and the 

Taiwan Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Partnership(THFCP) 

30. MOU between National Applied Research Laboratories(NARLABs) and 

Slovak Academy of Science(SAS) 

11 

斯洛伐克經濟部組織架構

Government Office

Ministry of Economy部⾧Denisa Sakova

駐斯洛伐克代表處經濟組
2025年3月13日更新

第㇐次⾧ Szabolcs Hodosy

第二次⾧ Vladimir Simonak

投資及產業園區司
Dep. Of Investment 
& Industrial Parks
(Dominik Susa司⾧)

戰略總司
Strategy Section
(Katarina Augustini總司⾧)

能源總司
Section for Energy

創新司(Innovation Dep.)、
產業政策司(Industrial Policy Dep.)

貿易政策
與歐洲總司
Section for Foreign Trade 
Policy and European Affairs
(Andrea Krajikova總司⾧)

雙邊貿易合作司
Dep. Of European 
& Trade Cooperation
(Andrej Koleda司⾧
及秘書Katarína Benková)

商業環境司
Dep. of Business Environment 
Improvement

貿易管理司
Dep. of Trade Enforcement

半官方組織

創新及能源局SIEA

中小企業局SBA

投資及貿易局SARIO

---

## 原始檔案

- 主文：`114.03.13駐斯洛伐克代表處經濟組_有關本組推動與斯洛伐克經濟部雙邊經貿合作情形事.pdf`